documentation/docs/tunnels/tcp-tunnel.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

import Terminal from '@site/src/components/Terminal';

# TCP tunnel

`otoroshictl tcp-tunnel` starts a local TCP server and bridges every incoming connection to a remote TCP service through Otoroshi via a WebSocket tunnel.

```
your client ──► local TCP :2222 ──► WebSocket ──► Otoroshi ──► remote TCP service
                otoroshictl                          │
                                             auth & access control
```

The typical use-case is accessing a private TCP service (SSH, PostgreSQL, Redis, …) that is only reachable from the Otoroshi cluster, without opening any extra network port.

## How it works

For each incoming TCP connection, `otoroshictl`:

1. Opens a dedicated WebSocket connection to `/.well-known/otoroshi/tunnel` on the Otoroshi routing layer
2. Forwards raw TCP bytes as binary WebSocket frames in both directions
3. Closes the WebSocket when the TCP connection is terminated

## Basic usage — SSH via API key

The most common setup: SSH forwarding authenticated with an Otoroshi API key.

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl tcp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com:9999 --tls --remote-host ssh.internal.com --remote-port 22 --local-port 2222 --access-type apikey --apikey-client-id my-client-id --apikey-client-secret my-client-secret"
    result={`
[INFO  otoroshictl::tunnels::tcp] TCP tunnel listening on 127.0.0.1:2222 → ssh.internal.com:22 via Otoroshi (myotoroshi.example.com:9999)
[INFO  otoroshictl::tunnels::tcp] TCP tunnel ready, waiting for connections ...
`} />

Then connect your SSH client normally:

<Terminal
    command="ssh -p 2222 user@127.0.0.1"
/>

## Bearer token authentication

Use a JWT or OAuth 2.0 access token with `--access-type bearer`:

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl tcp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com --tls --remote-host db.internal.com --remote-port 5432 --local-port 5432 --access-type bearer --bearer-token eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiJ9..."
/>

## Private apps session token

To authenticate via an Otoroshi private app session (papp token):

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl tcp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com --tls --remote-host redis.internal.com --remote-port 6379 --local-port 6379 --access-type session --session-token <papp-token>"
/>

The session token is transmitted as the `pappsToken` query parameter in the WebSocket URL.

## Public access (no authentication)

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl tcp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com --remote-host service.internal.com --remote-port 9000 --local-port 9000 --access-type public"
/>

## Custom local address

By default the local server listens on `127.0.0.1`. Use `--local-host` to bind to another address:

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl tcp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com --tls --remote-host ssh.internal.com --remote-port 22 --local-host 0.0.0.0 --local-port 2222 --access-type apikey --apikey-client-id my-client-id --apikey-client-secret my-client-secret"
/>

:::tip
Each connection to the local port opens its own WebSocket to Otoroshi, so multiple clients can connect simultaneously without any extra configuration.
:::

## Authentication types

| `--access-type` | Mechanism | Required flags |
|---|---|---|
| `apikey` *(default)* | `Authorization: Basic base64(clientId:clientSecret)` header | `--apikey-client-id`, `--apikey-client-secret` |
| `bearer` / `jwt` | `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header | `--bearer-token` |
| `session` | `pappsToken=<token>` query parameter | `--session-token` |
| `public` | No authentication | — |

## Command usage

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl tcp-tunnel -h"
    result={`
Tunnel TCP traffic through an otoroshi cluster (e.g. expose SSH via Otoroshi)

Usage: otoroshictl tcp-tunnel [OPTIONS] --host <HOST> --remote-host <REMOTE_HOST> --remote-port <REMOTE_PORT>

Options:
      --host <HOST>
          The Otoroshi routing hostname (e.g. myotoroshi.example.com or myotoroshi.example.com:9999)
      --tls
          Use TLS (WSS) for the WebSocket connection to Otoroshi
      --local-host <LOCAL_HOST>
          Local address to listen on [default: 127.0.0.1]
      --local-port <LOCAL_PORT>
          Local port to listen on [default: 2222]
      --remote-host <REMOTE_HOST>
          Remote host that Otoroshi should forward traffic to
      --remote-port <REMOTE_PORT>
          Remote port that Otoroshi should forward traffic to
      --access-type <ACCESS_TYPE>
          Authentication type: apikey, bearer, session, or public [default: apikey]
      --apikey-client-id <APIKEY_CLIENT_ID>
          API key client ID (for apikey access type)
      --apikey-client-secret <APIKEY_CLIENT_SECRET>
          API key client secret (for apikey access type)
      --bearer-token <BEARER_TOKEN>
          Bearer token - JWT or OAuth access token (for bearer access type)
      --session-token <SESSION_TOKEN>
          Private apps session token - papp token (for session access type)
  -h, --help
          Print help
`} />

Commit message:

make remote_host and remote_port optional

documentation/docs/tunnels/tcp-tunnel.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

import Terminal from '@site/src/components/Terminal';

# TCP tunnel

`otoroshictl tcp-tunnel` starts a local TCP server and bridges every incoming connection to a remote TCP service through Otoroshi via a WebSocket tunnel.

```
your client ──► local TCP :2222 ──► WebSocket ──► Otoroshi ──► remote TCP service
                otoroshictl                          │
                                             auth & access control
```

The typical use-case is accessing a private TCP service (SSH, PostgreSQL, Redis, …) that is only reachable from the Otoroshi cluster, without opening any extra network port.

## How it works

For each incoming TCP connection, `otoroshictl`:

1. Opens a dedicated WebSocket connection to `/.well-known/otoroshi/tunnel` on the Otoroshi routing layer
2. Forwards raw TCP bytes as binary WebSocket frames in both directions
3. Closes the WebSocket when the TCP connection is terminated

## Basic usage — SSH via API key

The most common setup: SSH forwarding authenticated with an Otoroshi API key.

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl tcp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com:9999 --tls --remote-host ssh.internal.com --remote-port 22 --local-port 2222 --access-type apikey --apikey-client-id my-client-id --apikey-client-secret my-client-secret"
    result={`
[INFO  otoroshictl::tunnels::tcp] TCP tunnel listening on 127.0.0.1:2222 → ssh.internal.com:22 via Otoroshi (myotoroshi.example.com:9999)
[INFO  otoroshictl::tunnels::tcp] TCP tunnel ready, waiting for connections ...
`} />

Then connect your SSH client normally:

<Terminal
    command="ssh -p 2222 user@127.0.0.1"
/>

## Bearer token authentication

Use a JWT or OAuth 2.0 access token with `--access-type bearer`:

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl tcp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com --tls --remote-host db.internal.com --remote-port 5432 --local-port 5432 --access-type bearer --bearer-token eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiJ9..."
/>

## Private apps session token

To authenticate via an Otoroshi private app session (papp token):

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl tcp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com --tls --remote-host redis.internal.com --remote-port 6379 --local-port 6379 --access-type session --session-token <papp-token>"
/>

The session token is transmitted as the `pappsToken` query parameter in the WebSocket URL.

## Public access (no authentication)

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl tcp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com --remote-host service.internal.com --remote-port 9000 --local-port 9000 --access-type public"
/>

## Custom local address

By default the local server listens on `127.0.0.1`. Use `--local-host` to bind to another address:

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl tcp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com --tls --remote-host ssh.internal.com --remote-port 22 --local-host 0.0.0.0 --local-port 2222 --access-type apikey --apikey-client-id my-client-id --apikey-client-secret my-client-secret"
/>

:::tip
Each connection to the local port opens its own WebSocket to Otoroshi, so multiple clients can connect simultaneously without any extra configuration.
:::

## Authentication types

| `--access-type` | Mechanism | Required flags |
|---|---|---|
| `apikey` *(default)* | `Authorization: Basic base64(clientId:clientSecret)` header | `--apikey-client-id`, `--apikey-client-secret` |
| `bearer` / `jwt` | `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header | `--bearer-token` |
| `session` | `pappsToken=<token>` query parameter | `--session-token` |
| `public` | No authentication | — |

## When to omit `--remote-host` / `--remote-port`

`--remote-host` and `--remote-port` are **optional**. You can omit them when the Otoroshi route target already contains the destination — for example when the target URL uses the `${remote_host}` or `${remote_port}` placeholders. In that case the values are resolved by Otoroshi itself and do not need to be passed on the command line.

## Command usage

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl tcp-tunnel -h"
    result={`
Tunnel TCP traffic through an otoroshi cluster (e.g. expose SSH via Otoroshi)

Usage: otoroshictl tcp-tunnel [OPTIONS] --host <HOST>

Options:
      --host <HOST>
          The Otoroshi routing hostname (e.g. myotoroshi.example.com or myotoroshi.example.com:9999)
      --tls
          Use TLS (WSS) for the WebSocket connection to Otoroshi
      --local-host <LOCAL_HOST>
          Local address to listen on [default: 127.0.0.1]
      --local-port <LOCAL_PORT>
          Local port to listen on [default: 2222]
      --remote-host <REMOTE_HOST>
          Remote host that Otoroshi should forward traffic to (optional if the Otoroshi target uses \${remote_host})
      --remote-port <REMOTE_PORT>
          Remote port that Otoroshi should forward traffic to (optional if the Otoroshi target uses \${remote_port})
      --access-type <ACCESS_TYPE>
          Authentication type: apikey, bearer, session, or public [default: apikey]
      --apikey-client-id <APIKEY_CLIENT_ID>
          API key client ID (for apikey access type)
      --apikey-client-secret <APIKEY_CLIENT_SECRET>
          API key client secret (for apikey access type)
      --bearer-token <BEARER_TOKEN>
          Bearer token - JWT or OAuth access token (for bearer access type)
      --session-token <SESSION_TOKEN>
          Private apps session token - papp token (for session access type)
  -h, --help
          Print help
`} />
