documentation/docs/tunnels/udp-tunnel.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

import Terminal from '@site/src/components/Terminal';

# UDP tunnel

`otoroshictl udp-tunnel` starts a local UDP server and bridges datagrams to a remote UDP service through Otoroshi via a persistent WebSocket tunnel.

```
your client ──► local UDP :1053 ──► WebSocket ──► Otoroshi ──► remote UDP service
                otoroshictl                          │
                                             auth & access control
```

The typical use-case is forwarding UDP-based protocols (DNS, syslog, SNMP, game servers, …) to internal services only reachable from the Otoroshi cluster.

## How it works

Unlike the TCP tunnel which opens one WebSocket per connection, the UDP tunnel uses **a single persistent WebSocket** for all datagrams:

1. A single WebSocket connection is established to `/.well-known/otoroshi/tunnel` on Otoroshi
2. Each incoming datagram is wrapped in a JSON frame `{"address": "…", "port": …, "data": "<base64>"}` and sent over the WebSocket
3. Otoroshi replies with the same JSON format; `otoroshictl` decodes and forwards the payload back to the originating client
4. If the WebSocket drops, it reconnects automatically every 2 seconds while keeping the UDP socket bound

## Basic usage — DNS via API key

Tunnel a DNS resolver authenticated with an Otoroshi API key:

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl udp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com:9999 --tls --remote-host dns.internal.com --remote-port 53 --local-port 1053 --access-type apikey --apikey-client-id my-client-id --apikey-client-secret my-client-secret"
    result={`
[INFO  otoroshictl::tunnels::udp] UDP tunnel listening on 127.0.0.1:1053 → dns.internal.com:53 via Otoroshi (myotoroshi.example.com:9999)
[INFO  otoroshictl::tunnels::udp] UDP tunnel ready, waiting for datagrams ...
[INFO  otoroshictl::tunnels::udp] Connecting WebSocket tunnel ...
[INFO  otoroshictl::tunnels::udp] WebSocket tunnel connected
`} />

Then query the local DNS resolver:

<Terminal
    command="dig @127.0.0.1 -p 1053 internal.service.com"
/>

:::tip
The local port defaults to `1053` (not `53`) so that `otoroshictl` does not require root privileges. You can then configure your system or application to use `127.0.0.1:1053` as its resolver.
:::

## Bearer token authentication

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl udp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com --tls --remote-host syslog.internal.com --remote-port 514 --local-port 5140 --access-type bearer --bearer-token eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiJ9..."
/>

## Private apps session token

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl udp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com --tls --remote-host snmp.internal.com --remote-port 161 --local-port 10161 --access-type session --session-token <papp-token>"
/>

## Public access (no authentication)

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl udp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com --remote-host service.internal.com --remote-port 9999 --local-port 9999 --access-type public"
/>

## Custom local address

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl udp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com --tls --remote-host dns.internal.com --remote-port 53 --local-host 0.0.0.0 --local-port 1053 --access-type apikey --apikey-client-id my-client-id --apikey-client-secret my-client-secret"
/>

## Differences from the TCP tunnel

| | TCP tunnel | UDP tunnel |
|---|---|---|
| WebSocket connections | One per TCP connection | One shared, persistent |
| Reconnection | Per connection | Automatic (every 2 s) |
| Framing | Raw binary bytes | JSON `{"address", "port", "data"}` |
| State | Connection-oriented | Stateless / connectionless |
| Alias | `tt` | `ut` |

## Authentication types

| `--access-type` | Mechanism | Required flags |
|---|---|---|
| `apikey` *(default)* | `Authorization: Basic base64(clientId:clientSecret)` header | `--apikey-client-id`, `--apikey-client-secret` |
| `bearer` / `jwt` | `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header | `--bearer-token` |
| `session` | `pappsToken=<token>` query parameter | `--session-token` |
| `public` | No authentication | — |

## Command usage

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl udp-tunnel -h"
    result={`
Tunnel UDP traffic through an otoroshi cluster

Usage: otoroshictl udp-tunnel [OPTIONS] --host <HOST> --remote-host <REMOTE_HOST> --remote-port <REMOTE_PORT>

Options:
      --host <HOST>
          The Otoroshi routing hostname (e.g. myotoroshi.example.com or myotoroshi.example.com:9999)
      --tls
          Use TLS (WSS) for the WebSocket connection to Otoroshi
      --local-host <LOCAL_HOST>
          Local address to listen on [default: 127.0.0.1]
      --local-port <LOCAL_PORT>
          Local port to listen on [default: 1053]
      --remote-host <REMOTE_HOST>
          Remote host that Otoroshi should forward traffic to
      --remote-port <REMOTE_HOST>
          Remote port that Otoroshi should forward traffic to
      --access-type <ACCESS_TYPE>
          Authentication type: apikey, bearer, session, or public [default: apikey]
      --apikey-client-id <APIKEY_CLIENT_ID>
          API key client ID (for apikey access type)
      --apikey-client-secret <APIKEY_CLIENT_SECRET>
          API key client secret (for apikey access type)
      --bearer-token <BEARER_TOKEN>
          Bearer token - JWT or OAuth access token (for bearer access type)
      --session-token <SESSION_TOKEN>
          Private apps session token - papp token (for session access type)
  -h, --help
          Print help
`} />

Commit message:

make remote_host and remote_port optional

documentation/docs/tunnels/udp-tunnel.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

import Terminal from '@site/src/components/Terminal';

# UDP tunnel

`otoroshictl udp-tunnel` starts a local UDP server and bridges datagrams to a remote UDP service through Otoroshi via a persistent WebSocket tunnel.

```
your client ──► local UDP :1053 ──► WebSocket ──► Otoroshi ──► remote UDP service
                otoroshictl                          │
                                             auth & access control
```

The typical use-case is forwarding UDP-based protocols (DNS, syslog, SNMP, game servers, …) to internal services only reachable from the Otoroshi cluster.

## How it works

Unlike the TCP tunnel which opens one WebSocket per connection, the UDP tunnel uses **a single persistent WebSocket** for all datagrams:

1. A single WebSocket connection is established to `/.well-known/otoroshi/tunnel` on Otoroshi
2. Each incoming datagram is wrapped in a JSON frame `{"address": "…", "port": …, "data": "<base64>"}` and sent over the WebSocket
3. Otoroshi replies with the same JSON format; `otoroshictl` decodes and forwards the payload back to the originating client
4. If the WebSocket drops, it reconnects automatically every 2 seconds while keeping the UDP socket bound

## Basic usage — DNS via API key

Tunnel a DNS resolver authenticated with an Otoroshi API key:

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl udp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com:9999 --tls --remote-host dns.internal.com --remote-port 53 --local-port 1053 --access-type apikey --apikey-client-id my-client-id --apikey-client-secret my-client-secret"
    result={`
[INFO  otoroshictl::tunnels::udp] UDP tunnel listening on 127.0.0.1:1053 → dns.internal.com:53 via Otoroshi (myotoroshi.example.com:9999)
[INFO  otoroshictl::tunnels::udp] UDP tunnel ready, waiting for datagrams ...
[INFO  otoroshictl::tunnels::udp] Connecting WebSocket tunnel ...
[INFO  otoroshictl::tunnels::udp] WebSocket tunnel connected
`} />

Then query the local DNS resolver:

<Terminal
    command="dig @127.0.0.1 -p 1053 internal.service.com"
/>

:::tip
The local port defaults to `1053` (not `53`) so that `otoroshictl` does not require root privileges. You can then configure your system or application to use `127.0.0.1:1053` as its resolver.
:::

## Bearer token authentication

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl udp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com --tls --remote-host syslog.internal.com --remote-port 514 --local-port 5140 --access-type bearer --bearer-token eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiJ9..."
/>

## Private apps session token

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl udp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com --tls --remote-host snmp.internal.com --remote-port 161 --local-port 10161 --access-type session --session-token <papp-token>"
/>

## Public access (no authentication)

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl udp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com --remote-host service.internal.com --remote-port 9999 --local-port 9999 --access-type public"
/>

## Custom local address

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl udp-tunnel --host myotoroshi.example.com --tls --remote-host dns.internal.com --remote-port 53 --local-host 0.0.0.0 --local-port 1053 --access-type apikey --apikey-client-id my-client-id --apikey-client-secret my-client-secret"
/>

## Differences from the TCP tunnel

| | TCP tunnel | UDP tunnel |
|---|---|---|
| WebSocket connections | One per TCP connection | One shared, persistent |
| Reconnection | Per connection | Automatic (every 2 s) |
| Framing | Raw binary bytes | JSON `{"address", "port", "data"}` |
| State | Connection-oriented | Stateless / connectionless |
| Alias | `tt` | `ut` |

## Authentication types

| `--access-type` | Mechanism | Required flags |
|---|---|---|
| `apikey` *(default)* | `Authorization: Basic base64(clientId:clientSecret)` header | `--apikey-client-id`, `--apikey-client-secret` |
| `bearer` / `jwt` | `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header | `--bearer-token` |
| `session` | `pappsToken=<token>` query parameter | `--session-token` |
| `public` | No authentication | — |

## When to omit `--remote-host` / `--remote-port`

`--remote-host` and `--remote-port` are **optional**. You can omit them when the Otoroshi route target already contains the destination — for example when the target URL uses the `${remote_host}` or `${remote_port}` placeholders. In that case the values are resolved by Otoroshi itself and do not need to be passed on the command line.

## Command usage

<Terminal
    command="otoroshictl udp-tunnel -h"
    result={`
Tunnel UDP traffic through an otoroshi cluster

Usage: otoroshictl udp-tunnel [OPTIONS] --host <HOST>

Options:
      --host <HOST>
          The Otoroshi routing hostname (e.g. myotoroshi.example.com or myotoroshi.example.com:9999)
      --tls
          Use TLS (WSS) for the WebSocket connection to Otoroshi
      --local-host <LOCAL_HOST>
          Local address to listen on [default: 127.0.0.1]
      --local-port <LOCAL_PORT>
          Local port to listen on [default: 1053]
      --remote-host <REMOTE_HOST>
          Remote host that Otoroshi should forward traffic to (optional if the Otoroshi target uses \${remote_host})
      --remote-port <REMOTE_PORT>
          Remote port that Otoroshi should forward traffic to (optional if the Otoroshi target uses \${remote_port})
      --access-type <ACCESS_TYPE>
          Authentication type: apikey, bearer, session, or public [default: apikey]
      --apikey-client-id <APIKEY_CLIENT_ID>
          API key client ID (for apikey access type)
      --apikey-client-secret <APIKEY_CLIENT_SECRET>
          API key client secret (for apikey access type)
      --bearer-token <BEARER_TOKEN>
          Bearer token - JWT or OAuth access token (for bearer access type)
      --session-token <SESSION_TOKEN>
          Private apps session token - papp token (for session access type)
  -h, --help
          Print help
`} />
